Hey guys welcome back to the chorus.
All right here we go one more time with info on how to promote your content.
So far we've talked about the ways you can promote your posts using social media channels and specifically
social media scheduling platforms like buffer and meet Edgar.
And we talked about how to promote your work by approaching and working with influencers.
Well there's one more tactic for promoting content that I want to tell you about and it's about getting
people to link to your stuff from their posts.
Those three promotional tactics we're talking about now are pretty much the big three.
If this record is dedicated to content marketing we might go into 15 different ways.
More specifically however we're just trying to get our first 500.
So these first three kind of bedrock foundational promotional strategies are really all you need to
stick with.
Now if you didn't know even the slightest thing about the Internet or SEO or content marketing what
I could tell you is hey guess what.
When someone links from their page to your post that is generally a great thing.
Search engines see these links as endorsements.
So each link your posts get is like kind of getting another vote.
And as far as content marketing goes that's good because more people will find it through search.
But then also people who read that other article might see the link click through and then find yours.
This is all great.
And guess what.
People included links and their stuff all the time because they want to be valuable to their audience
what's more valuable than giving them lots of resources saving them the time of finding a great article
that elaborates on something they're just talking about.
So you know there are a few ways that you can get these magical links to your new post.
Now the first step to getting people to link to you is to figure out which of your post first of all
you're going to try and get links for.
It's relatively hard to work with multiple posts at a time trying to get links to way easier to just
pick one.
And really kind of drill down on it whatever it is for your first one and make sure it's one of your
better ones I'll make this whole this whole process a lot easier.
Now I'm sure you're proud of all of your work but when you're trying to get other people to link to
you you need to approach them with the best of your stuff.
OK so if you have some post in mind if you don't just kind of flip through whatever it is that you produced
at this point.
The second step is to find popular posts that are related to yours now being related to yours can sound
a little bit vague but not really.
What did you write about.
What conclusion did you come to.
Generally speaking there's going to be other ones out there that are similar.
When you wrote this one you probably were comparing it to other posts out there that were similar so
you probably should already have a list of ones out there.
You don't just get googling or using buzz sumo.
Now once you have a list of them there's a few ways you can approach this because there are different
kinds of value you could offer at the people who wrote those other posts.
That's the big question.
If someone wrote about it and I want them to link to me and that kind of awkward how do I get them to
do it.
Well really you're just going to try to connect the win win for them are going to convince them that
this will add value to their post.
And again of the content marketing or running their posts that's probably what they care about.
So let me go through each angle that you can use to get them to link back to you and you'll see what
I mean.
Now first of all you could ask that person who made a post to be included in a listicle that links to
other posts similar to yours.
Let's say you wrote a post about how to create a WordPress template from scratch real original.
Well there's bound to be some top 10 list or others like it that linked to similar tutorials like the
top 10 ways to create or add plus templates or something like that.
Somebody who wrote an ultimate guide about WordPress probably addressed the fact that the beginning
you might start from scratch.
Someone out there is probably compiled a resource collection that list off all the great things you
can find if you're just getting into Wordpress or from soup to nuts start to finish WordPress.
Now you could use buzz Zumo to help find some of these you Grimbal buddy help you find popular engaging
posts about your topic.
You could use Buzz Summa or you could even go to Google if you had to and just search for posts relevant
to your post.
In this case you'd look for things like you know ways to create a WordPress template or Wordpress template
tutorials.
Or you could do what I just said before and do WordPress template tutorial ultimate guide or stick some
of those things in there.
Top 10 top 8 WordPress whatever.
If you just fish around you'll find stuff that you can find any popular list or resource pages that
link out to multiple tutorials and you've got a great lead.
So contact the author of the post or the person who runs the blog.
Shoot them an email or other kind of message and then tell them about your post.
How are you going to contact with them.
Well generally they have a contact information on their page.
If they don't generally you can do a contact form or you can post a comment on their post or you can
always do email hunting which we covered in a different lecture email.
Hunting is basically just guessing their email address because as it turns out you can guess probably
90 percent of people's email addresses.
Now when you actually do get into contact with them let them know that you think their post is great
but you'd like to know if they can maybe add in yours obviously you don't make it that straightforward.
You say maybe it's missing something or maybe this section could be improved.
Here's a great way to do it.
In some cases authors are going to be more than happy to add links because it increases the value of
their post.
Other times they're just not going to want to touch it because they're busy and not want to go back.
In the case of them being too busy or they want to do it though you might be able to add a comment to
their blog post or suggest your post as another source of value for anyone else as are checking things
out.
Do you really think of this as a kind of a last resort.
But if you're trying to get links from say like a really old post and they're just not motivated to
do.
You're not getting responses or this flat out say no.
Well this is one way to do it.
Post in the comments.
Either way the people seeing that popular post may begin then checking out your post.
So that's one way to promote your work.
Find people who have lots of links coming out their page that are remotely relevant.
Try to get into contact with them see if they can add this as a value add to their thing.
Try to make it as easy as possible for them.
If they say no.
Just try to sneak it in on the comments.
So let's say that you've written a post about a specific strategy or a single step that's part of a
much larger process like for example you might have some great ideas about how to deal with people who
complain on Twitter.
You've got specific tips or maybe some tools or templates you use.
So you write a post about dealing with those Twitter trolls.
There's so many of them.
Well you know some people out there have written higher level posts about the same topic.
What I mean is that the post isn't as specific as yours but it covers a broader area so maybe there's
a really popular guide for some big web site about how to use social media to engage with customers
in general and one much smaller part of that guide deal specifically with your topic.
The Twitter trolls oftentimes that big guide will not want to spend a lot of time getting into the weeds
of something so specific.
So it's very easy and very rational for them to instead link out to something that specializes in it.
Well your post goes in a greater detail than that broader gargled and you've got a great opportunity.
You can contact that offer of that god and again tell them how great their stuff is but then alert them
to this opportunity.
I happen to have a post that's all about dealing with the specific point you mentioned and I bet your
readers would appreciate reading it.
So I was hoping you might consider linking to it now.
You're not just asking for something you're promising additional value for the bloggers readers and
in that way it's a win win.
If you want to find these guides you'll want to fire up buzz over google again and do some searches.
In this case you have to think about where your posts would fit if it was a part of a larger group of
post or guide.
Now take this idea and then just flip it on its head.
What if you're the one that wrote the broad piece if you linked out to posts with specific detail where
you can actually then ask them for a link in return.
Great way to open up a conversation is hey of your stuff.
I wrote a really big blog and I immediately thought of you I like your stuff so much that I link to
you here and I know people enjoyed it and click through because I have the stats here.
Oh by the way I wrote something it's very similar we have similar audiences would you be able to link
to me in return.
No that's not really a weird conversation so let's say you wrote a beginner's guide just starting an
email newsletter.
You mentioned all the important things you list some email providers.
You talk about building a list setting up a forum for subscriptions.
All that stuff.
Well if you decided not to go into great detail on any of these points then you could link out to great
posts that offer the details for you.
And nothing is stopping you from searching for those great sources and then linking to them.
But when you add a link you could also contact those sources and let them know hey I've written this
Beginner's Guide and I've added a link to your post on how to manage email us because it's a great resource.
Then ask them to link back to you.
I hope you'd consider linking back to our posts from yours.
We'd appreciate it.
So each of these three outreach strategies looking for someone with a guide that has lots of different
sections and then you write something specific that fits in that section you get a link from them.
The other one is just looking for relevant post and just act asking them directly or posting their comments.
And the third one is you write a large post because then you can link out curry some favor with other
people and eventually use those to cash and links backwards.
Now each of these three we need to search for posts that are obviously relevant are complimentary to
our own.
Finding people that are relevant.
It's pretty easy and there's no real magic to it.
It's just the amount of time you take this under you you'd easily outsource anyone who can understand
that you wrote a blog post about beginning or Wordpress knows what Wordpress is and can search for other
people talking about WordPress.
Look for potential inserts.
The other thing I mentioned that you should not forget about is look for people who do those lists look
for the people who do those resorts compilations as a kind of lazy articles but very easy for you to
say hey I know you wrote about 10 different ways you can start learning WordPress.
I have another article you want to make it 11.
That's usually a good pitch.
OK you got it.
That's three ways you can reach out.
Get links back to you.
Great.
I'm going to see you in the next election.